VISION

This is a quiz app designed for use by laypeople especially Spanish speaking adult migrant workers with middle school education that will operate on a small scale in a custom classroom setting designed by my mom, and she's dictating the design and I'm helping her out as dev support. The vision is that the people using the app will be able to enter a topic of their choice and get back 5-10 questions in quiz format that are in multiple-choice format, where there is a prompt in English which can be played as audio by tapping on it using the system speech-to-text, and the four options for multiple choice should use appropriate common vocabulary for everyday tasks related to work and daily life. There is already an app that's basically working and includes some good question and answer content, but this should be viewed as a prototype that lacks the flexibility envisioned once this project is properly outfitted with a real AI backend. My understanding is that this will require an API key for some AI service or another, which will be loaded with ideally a pretty small amount of cash so that it can respond to these very short api calls to get a couple formatted questions on the named topic. I'm guessing this will mean that we'll have to encourage the queried model to reply in some regular form that can be parsed by app code, and probably needs some retry logic if it doesn't work the first time, and of course we might benefit from any features that have already been implemented by AI providers that help models adhere to formats like this, if accessible and not expensive. I'm hoping about $20 will go for a long time, and I want to be sure there are no financial consequences if this somehow gets popular and a lot of people want to use it for some reason--ideally my mom does not get charged tens of thousands of dollars. We'd like to host it on a subdomain of my mom's website textenergy.com, which currently has no content. We'd like to get it hosted so that you can just go to a basic URL and with no technical experience/a SMS/WhatsApp level of proficiency on a mobile device, just get started right away. Putting my hat on as a potential learner of Spanish, if I get a Spanish prompt and a bunch of English choices back, what would I want to do with that? Would I want someone to be able to look over the answers with me? If I had trouble, would I want to send them an SMS? As a person who only uses whatsapp and tiktok, would I be ok using an email? Personally I think just getting a summary at the end (in Spanish of course) is the minimum functionality, and the ability to share or download it seems good too, maybe using a "share" button that lets me decide where to send the results and that would just happen in some default way that could be interpreted by my mom or any other person who might want to review the results. However, this is just musing and sort of an open question. For now, you'll find some app code related to email and SMS sending, and we'll just ignore that for the moment until we have a firmer plan. Please remind me to come back to this open-ended question once we have achieved the basic plan outlined so far.

For context, my mom has been teaching English to adult Spanish speakers for about a decade and finds that they need a way to relate the spoken word to the text that they see because of the complexities of English spelling which makes no sense to them so it's very important they have the ability to hear the English in whatever we develop and compare it to probable similar sounding phrases in Spanish. her students are mostly either dairy workers or landscapers, so they have some vocabulary which is specific to their work that is useful for them to understand when spoken by English coworkers. That's her main goal, to increase their ability to understand spoken English for use on the job. Secondarily, making sure they have the ability to pronounce the English well--she has in a separate app developed transcription of English language to Spanish phonemes of a very non-technical nature, not using the traditional phoneme characters of linguistic but transcribing into usual Spanish alphabet letters. This would be a wonderful addition to the app, that it would be able to display a transcription of the English prompt along with a text-to-speech generated audio clip generated on the interface. I'm guessing this will be a bit more of an open-ended type of query that will encourage a little creativity from an AI endpoint to phrase it well--we could develop a standard phonetic transcription as a side project but we can start by trusting the ideally pretty good guesses from modern AI--if that is likely to work we can start there. We've had mixed results with both Claude and chatgpt (after all, they work on a text-semantic or token-based understanding of language and are less fluent in how things are pronounced and how different language speakers perceive and encounter ambiguities in phonemes) they are not always consistent on the choices they make for phonetic transcription, and we never got into some of the more difficult subtleties of English spelling that can confuse the transcription effort. A Barons bilingual dictionary had a transcription key for English for Spanish speakers in the dictionary, is that a thing? That's a useful model for transcription without using specialized phonetic characters e.g. IPA.